# Grasiozo_Salvare
Final project for CS-340 Client/Server Development SNHU

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

  I created maintainable, readable and adaptable programs by using organized, industry accepted practices to create my code. This includes proper indentations and comments that explain certain lines of code. I also didn't overdo the comments as well because some things are self-explanatory. It is a delicate balancing act to find the happy medium. 
  I also created adaptable code by not specifically tieing it to this project. I used variables and broad naming conventions that could easily make the CRUD module useful in other projects. Because of the way the code is set up, it can be reused with a copy, paste, and a few line changes.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?
  
  Incremental steps have become crucial in my life since becomming a coder. I think in terms of algorithms and basic steps as much as possible. I even do this in other tasks in my life. One example is when I work in a kitchen, I think about the actual steps I take to make a certain product and I think about ways to make it more efficient. One example is taking all of the ingredients for a given sandwhich out of the fridge at once rather than go back for each individual item as I need it. 
  Just like cooking in a kitchen, I had to look at this problem incrementally and solve one problem at at time. The first step was building the CRUD module to actually query the database. I had to carry out each individual function and test each individual function first before moving on to the next. I started with Create, then moved on to Read, etc.
   One way that this project differed from other projects is that there were many different parts that I had to do seperately and then integrate together. I was the first time in my career that I had to really create separate pieces(User Interface, API, etc.) and then integrate them together properly. It was definitly more of a taste of the "real world" than other projects. I will carry this experience of breaking a project apart into individual elements and then integrating them together into future projects. 


What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?
   
   Computer Science is a broad term. There are generally two different fields of expertise: Software Development/Coding and IT. Information Technology(IT) is generally considered working with tangible things. They are the technicians and the people who build devices whether they are server blocks or basic computers. Software Development/Coding also deals with products. While none of our finished products are tangible, they function and work in a certain way. Programmers produce programs and software that makes certain jobs easier for a person. In this case, we built an application that allows a company to screen an entire database for eligable candidates for rescue training programs. This screening process has been made easier because of our work. Our work helps improve work to make it more efficient and easier. Through this, people in ALL other fields are able to benefit and carry out their jobs better.
